# GaAs_Phonon_Frequencies
1. Download Anaconda from anaconda.com.



2. To create a conda environment that mirrors ours:
```
% conda env create --file requirements.yml
```
This will create an environment named phonopy with all required packages.















3. Ensure that your working directory has the following folders:
- conf_files
- output
- required_files (this directory must contain the files FORCE_SETS and POSCAR)
- yaml (this directory must contain base_mesh.yaml)



4. Activate the environment ` conda activate phonopy` and run gallium.py
```
% python gallium.py
```
This will create as many directories as set by the variable NUM_CONF_FILES (default 10).
Each directory will contain the following 3 files
- a copy of FORCE_SETS
- a copy of POSCAR
- a newly created mesh.conf file
Each directory contains the data generated by a random configuration of gallium isotopes.



5. Run dir_loop.sh
```
% bash dir_loop.sh
```
This step allows phonopy to operate on each of the newly created directories to compute phonon frequencies and corresponding eigenvectors.
The output of phonopy is the following 2 files added to each directory:
- mesh.yaml
- phonopy.yaml
These files contain the eigenvectors corresponding to the random isotope configurations created by gallium.py.
Note that this can be a slow process of operating on a large number of conf files.
Consider using "parallel" processing to speed this up.
Check out gnu parallel at https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/sphinx.html



6. Run analyze.py
```
% python analyze.py
```
This extracts frequencies corresponding to the eigenvectors which gave a maximum dot product with base_mesh.
This generates the data, i.e. base1.txt, base2.txt, base3.txt.



7. Run stats.py
```
% python stats.py
```
This produces the file results.txt containing the mean and standard deviation for each base.


For questions or clarifications please email me at ihajar@ucsd.edu.
